[docs] document tsh keys scan (#45207)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/admin-guides/access-controls/access-graph/ssh-keys-scan.mdx

all SSH authorized keys present on your servers and SSH Private Keys present on company managed laptops, Teleport Policy can
provide a visual representation of the access patterns and help you enhance the security of your environment.

This functionality gives you insights into the following areas:

- Which servers have SSH Authorized Keys that could be used to bypass Teleport?
- Which users have SSH Private Keys that grant access to SSH servers?
- Which laptops have unprotected SSH Private Keys?

Access Graph is a feature of the [Teleport Policy](https://goteleport.com/platform/policy/) product
available to Teleport Enterprise edition customers.

After logging in to the Teleport UI, navigate to the Management tab. If enabled, Access Graph options can be found
under the Permission Management section.

## How it works

Teleport and Teleport Policy's Access Graph synchronize various resources, including SSH authorized keys and private keys.

These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Access Graph page](../teleport-policy/getting-started-policy.mdx).

### Importing an SSH Node's Authorized Keys

> Teleport Cluster Nodes running the Teleport SSH Service continuously scan for SSH Authorized Keys present on the server.

Reviewer: This is not directly in scope of this doc but reading this I got a thought that technically I think it would make sense for any kind of agent to report authorized keys, not just SSH nodes. For example, you could have a server that runs database agent that may also be available via direct SSH access.

Author: the logic behind my decision is that in that case, you don't have any other way of accessing the node besides using ssh firectly. all patterns will always be insecure since they aren't auditable. 

We can change it and make all services reporting

The public fingerprint of these keys is sent to the Teleport Auth Service, which then pushes them to the Access Graph.
Together with the key fingerprint, the node also sends the following metadata:

- `public_fingerprint`: The SHA256 fingerprint of the public key.
- `host_id`: The unique identifier of the node.
- `username`: The local username whose access is granted by the key.
- `key_comment`: The comment associated with the key in the `authorized_keys` file.

By default, Teleport scans the `$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys` and `$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys2` files for authorized keys.
Here, `$HOME` refers to the home directory of each user on the system, whether they are local or LDAP managed users.

### Importing User's SSH Private Keys

Teleport's `tsh` CLI tool can scan users' laptops for SSH private keys.

> It goes through the specified directories—defaulting to `/Users` on macOS, `/home` on Linux, and `C:\Users` on Windows—

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It goes through the specified directories, defaulting to `/Users` on macOS, `/home` on Linux, and `C:\Users` on Windows, 
```

> by examining files with certain prefaces to identify SSH private keys.

Reviewer: How about rephrasing to something like this:
```suggestion
by peeking into files to identify SSH private keys.
```

It also never sends the private key path or any other sensitive information.
</Notice>

## Prerequisites

- A running Teleport Enterprise cluster v15.3.X/v16.2.0 or later.
- For self-hosted clusters, an updated `license.pem` with Teleport Policy enabled.
- For self-hosted clusters, a running Access Graph node v1.22.0 or later.
Check [Access Graph page](../teleport-policy/getting-started-policy.mdx) for details on
how to set up Access Graph.
- For self-hosted clusters, the node running the Access Graph service must be reachable
from Teleport Auth Service.
- A Teleport Node running the Teleport SSH Service.
- Devices enrolled in the [Teleport Device Trust feature](../device-trust.mdx).
- For Jamf Pro integration, devices must be enrolled in Jamf Pro and have the signed `tsh` binary installed.

## Step 1/3. Enable SSH Key Scanning

To enable SSH Key Scanning, you need to configure the Teleport cluster to scan for SSH Authorized Keys.

To enable the SSH Key Scanning feature, edit the Teleport Access Graph configuration file and set the
`spec.secrets_scan_config` field to `enabled` as shown below:

```bash

> $ tctl edit access_graph_settings

Reviewer: Are we planning to have an option to enable this in the UI?

Author: I didn't have plans to do it mostly because all config options are only available via tctl like changing the cluster_auth_preference. We don't offer an option to edit it via UI.
Should I add it?

---

> title: Discover insecure Access Patterns with Teleport Policy

Reviewer 2: I think the title is too generic - it doesn't mention SSH at all, but the entire guide is about scanning for SSH keys

Author: I couldn't find a good title for this. 
`SSH key scanning` isn't a good description so I end up using `Discover insecure SSH access with Teleport Policy`

description: Describes how to enable SSH Keys Scanning using Teleport Policy and Access Graph.
---

Organizations often struggle to maintain a secure environment due to the lack of visibility into access patterns.

> Long-lived SSH keys, for example, can pose a significant security risk as they can be forgotten or mismanaged while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Long-lived SSH keys, for example, can pose a significant security risk as they can be compromised or mismanaged while
```

"Forgotten" sounds like a forgotten password, but you don't forget an SSH key in the way you forget a password.

still providing non-auditable access to critical systems.

With Teleport Policy's Access Graph, you can gain insights on how SSH keys are used within your environment. By scanning
all SSH authorized keys present on your servers and SSH Private Keys present on company managed laptops, Teleport Policy can
provide a visual representation of the access patterns and help you enhance the security of your environment.

This functionality gives you insights into the following areas:

- Which servers have SSH Authorized Keys that could be used to bypass Teleport?

> - Which users have SSH Private Keys that grant access to SSH servers?

Reviewer 2: Interesting - how does this work? Does tsh do the scanning and report back?

Author: The Teleport SSH service monitors and tracks users along with their authorized key files. The `tsh keys scan` command initiates a scanning process on each user's laptop to detect potential private keys. It then reports the public key fingerprints to Teleport. 

Teleport's access graph analyzes all authorized keys and private keys, matching their fingerprints to establish direct access paths. This process ensures that each pk that grants access to a specific user in a server is defined and trackable.

In the future, we want to expand scanning to servers as well and import everything including server-server relationships. i.e. describe how insecure bastion hosts are

- Which laptops have unprotected SSH Private Keys?

Access Graph is a feature of the [Teleport Policy](https://goteleport.com/platform/policy/) product
available to Teleport Enterprise edition customers.

After logging in to the Teleport UI, navigate to the Management tab. If enabled, Access Graph options can be found
under the Permission Management section.

## How it works

Teleport and Teleport Policy's Access Graph synchronize various resources, including SSH authorized keys and private keys.

These resources are then visualized using the graph representation detailed in the
[Access Graph page](../teleport-policy/getting-started-policy.mdx).

> ### Importing Node's SSH Authorized Keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Importing an SSH Node's Authorized Keys
```

Teleport Cluster Nodes running the Teleport SSH Service continuously scan for SSH Authorized Keys present on the server.
The public fingerprint of these keys is sent to the Teleport Auth Service, which then pushes them to the Access Graph.
Together with the key fingerprint, the node also sends the following metadata:

- `public_fingerprint`: The SHA256 fingerprint of the public key.
- `host_id`: The unique identifier of the node.
- `username`: The local username whose access is granted by the key.
- `key_comment`: The comment associated with the key in the `authorized_keys` file.

> By default, Teleport scans the `$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys` and `$HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys2` files for authorized keys.

Reviewer 2: In what context is `$HOME` evaluated? The home directory for the user that the agent is running as, or all users?

Author: Added a note. It expands to the home dir of all users in the machine either being local or ldap managed

### Importing User's SSH Private Keys

Teleport's `tsh` CLI tool can scan users' laptops for SSH private keys.

> It goes through the specified directories—defaulting to `/Users` on macOS, `/home` on Linux, and `C://Users` on Windows—

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It goes through the specified directories—defaulting to `/Users` on macOS, `/home` on Linux, and `C:\Users` on Windows—
```

and accept the private key reports without requiring further authentication or credentials thus allowing scanning operations
to be performed without user interaction and valid credentials.

Once the device is authenticated, the `tsh` tool extracts the public key fingerprint from the private key, if available,
otherwise, it generates the fingerprint from the public key file if the last exists. The fingerprint is then sent to the
Teleport Cluster with metadata such as:

- `device_id`: The unique identifier of the device.
- `public_fingerprint`: The SHA256 fingerprint of the public key if available.
- `derivation_mode`: The method used to derive the public key from the private key. If can be either `private_key` if the
  public key is extracted from the private key, `public_key_file` if the private key is encrypted and the public key is
    available in a separate file, or `protected` if the public key fingerprint is not available.

<Notice type="warning">
`tsh` never sends the private key itself to the Teleport Cluster, ensuring that the private key remains secure on the device.
It also never sends the private key path or any other sensitive information.
</Notice>

> ### Creating insecure access paths

Reviewer 2: I don't know if this section is necessary. It seems to just reiterate topics that have already been discussed.

Author: removed
